I've been wanting to write about my second ludum dare game since the jam
was over, but laziness got in the way. Looking at the bright side,
talking about it now gives me an opportunity to review the code and game
after forgetting all the specifics. The theme was "Your Life is
Currency", which in my opinion is a trash theme.. I guess that's the
curse of actually being invested in and voting for themes. I didn't want
to take the obvious route of tying a characters health to purchasing
upgrades, so instead I tried to make a game about someone whose life is
all /about/ money. As usual, I used the one and only
[[https://www.lexaloffle.com/pico-8.php][pico-8]].

*** Design
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: design
    :END:

This idea lead me pretty quickly to the main gameplay concept of
balancing multiple types of funds. Originally this was themed around the
stock market where you would lay down different stocks that would
attract different traders, kind of like a tower defense game. Honestly,
looking back now I think that idea has more "fun" potential than what I
ended up with, but time constraints of making it work made me switch to
the simpler idea of giving the stocks directly to the person.

This gameplay change didn't jive as well with the stock market, so I
decided to shift to something we all love.. taxes. I like to base my
game around a "thesis statement", so I eventually landed on..

#+BEGIN_QUOTE
  As a government worker you live by the dollar. more specifically, you
  live to blindly give that dollar to any person who falls out of the
  sky!
#+END_QUOTE

Try not to read too much into the political nature of this, it's meant
to be pretty tongue and cheech. The story serves the gameplay, right?

*** Code
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: code
    :END:

The core gameplay was honestly pretty simple to program, so that gave me
time to add some nice "juice" to the game. I'm particularly proud of how
the civilians fall from the sky and hit the game board with a satisfying
thud (I used the screen shake method described in my last ludum dare
blog).

Unlike my first LD game, this one has full animations. I used this
animation function to get that done.

{% highlight lua %} o={ as="idle", -- state sp={ -- head
idle={64,65,65,64}, run={64,64,64,64}, }, sp2={ -- body
idle={80,81,82,83}, run={80,66,80,66}, }, t=0, -- tick f=1, -- frame
s=4, -- step }

function animate(o) o.t=(o.t+1)%o.s --tick fwd if (o.t==0) then
o.f=o.f%#o.sp[o.as]+1 end end {% endhighlight %}

It's actually pretty expressive for how short it is, allowing multiple
animation states and adjustable animation speed. I "hacked" in multiple
tiles per character by tying the animation of sp2 to the state of sp1.
Looking at the code now I would expand the =animate= function to handle
any number of sprites lists with unique length, something like this
object:

{% highlight lua %} -- UNTESTED!! o={ a={ -- animation state s="idle" --
state f=1, -- frame s=4, -- step spl={ -- sprites lists idle={ { -- head
f=1, sp={64,65,65,64}, }, { -- body f=1, sp={80,81,82,83} } } } } } {%
endhighlight %}

You can check out the games source code for yourself
[[https://gist.github.com/AlecTroemel/7f59036791dfc582076587e2acc92b88][here]].

*** Music & Art
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: music-art
    :END:

For the music I tried to recreate the feel of elevator music, because it
just felt right for a game about a guy holding a briefcase. I wrote 2.5
songs, one for the title screen and one for gameplay with a short game
over fanfair. Although I'm really happy with how all the music turned
out, I think only the gameplay track actually captured any of the Bossa
Nova feel of elevator music.

***** Title
      :PROPERTIES:
      :CUSTOM_ID: title
      :END:

#+BEGIN_HTML
  <audio src="/assets/music/civilian_bailout_title.wav" controls>
#+END_HTML

#+BEGIN_HTML
  </audio>
#+END_HTML

***** Gameplay
      :PROPERTIES:
      :CUSTOM_ID: gameplay
      :END:

#+BEGIN_HTML
  <audio src="/assets/music/civilian_bailout_music.wav" controls>
#+END_HTML

#+BEGIN_HTML
  </audio>
#+END_HTML

As for the art, it was pretty par for the course for me. If I had had
more time I would have liked to revisit the main characters run
animation, and the currency display UI on the left.

*** Last thoughts
    :PROPERTIES:
    :CUSTOM_ID: last-thoughts
    :END:

I'm already looking forward to the next Ludum Dare.. Though I hope we
can pick an actually good theme for once! Some goals I have are

- Enhance the animation function I talk about above
- Plan out the memory management of the sound effects and patterns ahead
  of time
- Make more art! (I used barely half the available sprite memory)
