Next up is a game I owned and started right when it was release, but
never finished until recently. Instead of getting philosophical like
last time, I'm going to talk about a specific puzzle that is
simultaneously my favorite, and least favorite. That is the the hexagon
robot puzzle in Double Fines "the Broken Age"

#+BEGIN_HTML
  <!--more-->
#+END_HTML

#+CAPTION: brokenage
[[/assets/images/brokenage_1.jpg]]

The central mechanic around this puzzle is that you need to wire (and
eventually rewire) this little hexagon robot. It starts in act 2 where
you need to find the dead robot, find some wire, and wire him up
correctly to fix him.

#+CAPTION: brokenage2
[[/assets/images/brokenage_2.jpg]]

The Broken Age uses the completely original idea of "multiple worlds".
You swap between 2 characters (Shay and Vella) in 2 different locations
(a "space ship", and "a seaside"). For the most part, this game keeps
its puzzles separated between characters. However, Shay in the seaside
finds the robot but the correct schematic is found in the space ship
with Vella. The 2 characters cant talk to each other, so its up to you
(the player) to piece together that

- the robot came from the ship
- the ship has the correct wiring (Shay actually mentions that at one
  point, but doesn't say specifically where)

This would all be pretty neat by itself, but this puzzle gains another
layer in the final act...

#+CAPTION: brokenage3
[[/assets/images/brokenage_3.jpg]]

In the final act we get multiple little robot friends, with multiple
wirings that "program" them to do different actions. Without explaining
the whole puzzle, you need to get one of the robots to hit a drum. I
spent a good bit of time wandering around not being able to find the
"hit the drum" wiring. Staring at another one of the robots swinging a
flashlight, it "clicked". I realized that that swinging motion looked a
lot like swinging a mallet to hit a drum. I copied the schematic from
robot 1 to the robot 2 and got him pounding on that drum.

I had not felt such a strong "A HA" moment from a puzzle in very long
time. I think this is because I had to take something old (this little
robot had been swingin his little flashlight since Act 1), and apply it
in a new context. It forced me to make the type of logical deduction
only humans are good at: This thing /is sorta like/ this other thing. It
made me use my intuition, and that made me feel smart.

--------------

Now there is 1 little problem with this puzzle...

#+CAPTION: insanity
[[/assets/images/brokenage_4.jpg]]

This problem is that you need to do multiple rewires (a very slow
process) in a very specific sequence, with specific timing, and *ANY
TIME YOU GET IT A TINY BIT WRONG THE WHOLE THING STARTS OVER*. Nothing
dampens the feeling of solving a good puzzle like having to redo it 10
times. Don't test my response time in your slow story driven adventure
game that definitely did not focus on making movement fun. If you
/really need to do that/ dont punishment me by making me redo the past
10 minutes.

Maybe this is a personal problem. I do have a pretty low tolerance for
redoing things in games (that's probably why I can never get into Dark
Souls like games). But I don't care. It makes me feel like your wasting
my time and I don't appreciate that Mr Tim Schafer.

--------------

To me there are 2 things to take away: - It feels good to make logical
connections and apply something in a new situation. It feels good when
your intuition is right. Ya I know intuition is subjective, but I think
the reward is worth the challenge! - If your going to test
skill/response time, the input itself better be fun and "responsive". Ya
I know responsiveness is also completely subjective, but to quote
Justice Potter Stewart "you know it when you see it". To expand on that,
"you known't it when you seen't it".
